Now I want to talk about approximate
inference by means of sampling.
What do I mean by that?
Say we want to deal with a joint
probability distribution,
say the distribution of heads and
tails over these two coins.
We can build a table, and
then start counting by sampling.
Here, we have our first sample,
we flip the coins, and
the one cent piece came up heads, and
the five cent piece came up tails.
So we would mark down one count,
then we'd toss them again.
This time, the five cent is heads and
the one cent is tails, so
we put down a count there.
And we'd repeat that process,
and keep repeating it,
until we got enough counts that we
could estimate the joint probability
distribution by looking at the counts.
Now, if we do a small number of samples,
the counts might not be very accurate.
There may be some random variation that
causes them not to converge to the true
values.
But as we add more samples,
the counts we get will come
closer to the true distribution.
Thus, sampling has an advantage
over inference in that
we know a procedure for coming up with
at least an approximate value for
the joint probability distribution.
As opposed to exact inference, where
the computation may be very complex.
There's another advantage to sampling,
which is, if we don't know what
the conditional probability tables are,
as we did in our other models.
If we don't know these numeric values,
but we can simulate the process,
we could still proceed with sampling,
whereas we couldn't
with exact inference.
[BLANK_AUDIO]